Update link guidance to reflect current advice (#345)
grafana/writers-toolkit: docs/sources/write/links/index.md

---
title: Links
description: Understand how to link between pages.
weight: 600
aliases:
  - /docs/writers-toolkit/write/links/
  - /docs/writers-toolkit/write/references/
  - /docs/writers-toolkit/writing-guide/references/
keywords:
  - Hugo
  - link
  - linking
  - links
  - ref
  - references
  - relref
---

# Links

Choose your link type based on the applicable scenario:

> - [Linking from source content that's used (or mounted) in multiple projects](#source-content-is-reused-in-multiple-projects)
> - [Linking to grafana.com pages](#destination-page-is-on-grafanacom)
> - [Linking to external pages](#destination-page-is-external)
> - [Linking to page headings](#anchors)

Reviewer: Having not looked at this PR for a while and returning to it, I realized having the bullet list of links and the actual headings they link to not have the same text was actually a bit confusing. Suggest we change headings to match link text. 

```suggestion
- [Linking from source content that's used (or mounted) in multiple projects](#linking-from-source-content-thats-used-in-multiple-projects)
- [Linking to grafana.com pages](#linking-to-grafana.com-pages)
- [Linking to external pages](#linking-to-external-pages)
- [Linking to page headings](#linking-to page-headings)
```

Other link types exist in our documentation, but you shouldn't use them:

- [Hugo `relref` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#relref)

> ## Source content is reused in multiple projects

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Linking from source content that's used in multiple projects
```

Use the `docs/reference` shortcode.

The source is reused as described in [Reuse directories of content with Hugo mounts](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/reuse-content/reuse-directories/).
For more information and examples, refer to [`docs/reference` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#docsreference).

> ## Destination page is on grafana.com

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Linking to grafana.com pages
```

Use a fully qualified URL with version substitution syntax (if needed).
Version substitution is necessary for fully qualified URLs to link to the correct version of documentation.
Usually, this is the current version of documentation.

> 

Reviewer: Suggest saying this once because I think this example can be understood to apply to all versioned docs vs repeating it twice when it's not something you do right when you're setting the link most of the time.
````suggestion

In versioned documentation, ensure that you set the appropriate version in the root `_index.md` file for your documentation.
For example, the following YAML, merged with the existing front matter in the root `_index.md` file sets `GRAFANA_VERSION` to be `latest` for that page and all child pages.

  ```yaml
  cascade:
    GRAFANA_VERSION: latest
  ```
````

### Examples

**Link to Grafana documentation**:

Start with `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/`, and add the rest of the URL path.

> For example, to link to the [Developers](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/developers) page with version substitution,

Reviewer: ```suggestion

For example, to link to the [Developers](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/developers) page with version substitution,
```

use `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/developers/`.

> - If you are from other documentation, `<GRAFANA_VERSION>` is substituted with the value of `GRAFANA_VERSION` set in the page's front matter.

Reviewer: Do you mean for this to be bulleted and the next para to be indented?
```suggestion
- If you're linking from other documentation, `<GRAFANA_VERSION>` is substituted with the value of `GRAFANA_VERSION` set in the page's front matter.
```

>   Ensure that you set the appropriate version in the root `_index.md` file for your documentation.
>   The following YAML, merged with the existing front matter in the root `_index.md` file sets `GRAFANA_VERSION` to be `latest` for that page and all child pages.
> 
>   ```yaml
>   cascade:
>     GRAFANA_VERSION: latest
>   ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**Link to Grafana Cloud documentation**:

Grafana Cloud documentation is not versioned so no version substitution syntax is needed.
Use the fully qualified URL.
For example, to link to the [Author and run tests](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/k6/author-run/) page, use `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/k6/author-run/`.

**Link to Mimir documentation**:

Start with `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<MIMIR_VERSION>/`, and add the rest of the URL path.
For example, to link to the [Release notes](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/release-notes/) page with version substitution,
use `https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/<MIMIR_VERSION>/release-notes/`.

> - If you are linking from Mimir documentation, `<MIMIR_VERSION>` is substituted with the version inferred from the page's URL.

Reviewer: Should this also be said in the grafana example?

> - If you are linking from Mimir documentation, `<MIMIR_VERSION>` is substituted with the version inferred from the page's URL.
> 
> - If you are from other documentation, `<MIMIR_VERSION>` is substituted with the value of `MIMIR_VERSION` set in the page's front matter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If you're linking from Mimir documentation, `<MIMIR_VERSION>` is substituted with the version inferred from the page's URL.

- If you're linking from other documentation, `<MIMIR_VERSION>` is substituted with the value of `MIMIR_VERSION` set in the page's front matter.
```

>   Ensure that you set the appropriate version in the root `_index.md` file for your documentation.
>   The following YAML, merged with the existing front matter in the root `_index.md` file sets `MIMIR_VERSION` to be `latest` for that page and all child pages.
> 
>   ```yaml
>   cascade:
>     MIMIR_VERSION: latest
>   ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> ## Destination page is external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Linking to external pages
```

Use the fully qualified URL.
For example, `https://github.com`.

> ## Anchors

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Linking to page headings
```

In a reference, you can optionally include an anchor to a heading in the referenced page.

> Specify and anchor at the end of the reference `#` followed by the normalized heading.
> 
> Hugo normalizes headings to make anchors.
> To convert a heading to an anchor, Hugo makes the following changes:

Reviewer: This part is a bit hard for me to parse even knowing exactly what the process should look like. The use of the word "normalized" and describing a hashtag as a "reference" sort of requires me to parse two bits of jargon that the reader might not know and we're not really going to explain before we use them, so I'd say let's remove them if possible. I think what probably makes more sense is to show examples of:

- heading
- heading converted to anchor
- anchor alone as a reference
- anchor at the end of a fully qualified URL

I don't think it hurts to still spell out the steps though. All the examples could come after the steps. But is this what **Hugo's** doing or what **you have to do** to create an anchor?
```suggestion

To convert a heading to an anchor, make the following changes:
```

1. Convert to lower case.
1. Remove any period characters (`.`).
1. Replace any character that's not a lower cased letter, a number, or an underscore (`_`) with dashes (`-`).

> 1. Trim any preceding or proceeding dashes (`-`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Trim any preceding or proceeding dashes (`-`).
1. Precede it with a `#`.
```

  - /docs/writers-toolkit/writing-guide/references/
keywords:
  - Hugo
  - link
  - linking
  - links
  - ref
  - references
  - relref
---

# Links

Choose your link type based on the applicable scenario:

- [Link from source content that's used in multiple projects](#link-from-source-content-thats-used-in-multiple-projects)
- [Link to grafana.com pages](#link-to-grafanacom-pages)
- [Link to external pages](#link-to-external-pages)
- [Link to page headings](#link-to-page-headings)

Other link types exist in our documentation, but you shouldn't use them:

- [Hugo `relref` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#relref)

## Link from source content that's used in multiple projects

Use the `docs/reference` shortcode.

The source is reused as described in [Reuse directories of content with Hugo mounts](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/reuse-content/reuse-directories/).
For more information and examples, refer to [`docs/reference` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#docsreference).

## Link to grafana.com pages

Use a fully qualified URL with version substitution syntax (if needed).

> Version substitution is necessary for fully qualified URLs to link to the correct version of documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Version substitution is necessary for full URLs to link to the correct version of documentation.
```

Reviewer 2: If _qualified_ is important enough, can we define it in one place and then not use it in multiple places? It is hard to digest this particular adverb and adjective combination. Alternatively, how about "... a qualified URL" is we must know what _qualified_ means?

Reviewer 2: Makes me think that I need to understand what a "half-qualified URL" might be.

Usually, this is the current version of documentation.

> In versioned documentation, ensure that you set the appropriate version in the root `_index.md` file for your documentation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In versioned documentation, set the correct version in the root `_index.md` file for your documentation.
```

> For example, the following YAML, merged with the existing front matter in the root `_index.md` file sets `GRAFANA_VERSION` to be `latest` for that page and all child pages.

Author: I don't think this suggestion makes sense. Is it just missing an "and"?

> For example, the following YAML, merged with the existing front matter in the root `_index.md` file sets `GRAFANA_VERSION` to be `latest` for that page and all child pages.

Reviewer 2: Thank you. Fixed

```yaml
cascade:
  GRAFANA_VERSION: latest
```

### Examples

**Link to Grafana documentation**:

Start with `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/`, and add the rest of the URL path.

For example, to link to the [Developers](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/developers) page with version substitution,
use `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/developers/`.

- If you're linking from Grafana documentation, `<GRAFANA_VERSION>` is substituted with the version inferred from the page's URL.
- If you're linking from other documentation, `<GRAFANA_VERSION>` is substituted with the value of `GRAFANA_VERSION` from the source page's front matter.

**Link to Grafana Cloud documentation**:

Grafana Cloud documentation is not versioned so no version substitution syntax is needed.

> Use the fully qualified URL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use the full URL.
```

For example, to link to the [Author and run tests](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/k6/author-run/) page, use `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/k6/author-run/`.

**Link to Mimir documentation**:

Start with `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<MIMIR_VERSION>/`, and add the rest of the URL path.

For example, to link to the [Release notes](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/release-notes/) page with version substitution,
use `https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/<MIMIR_VERSION>/release-notes/`.

- If you're linking from Mimir documentation, `<MIMIR_VERSION>` is substituted with the version inferred from the page's URL.
- If you're linking from other documentation, `<MIMIR_VERSION>` is substituted with the value of `MIMIR_VERSION` from the source page's front matter.

## Link to external pages

Use the fully qualified URL.
For example, `https://github.com`.

## Link to page headings

Link to a heading on a page in one of two ways.

From within the same page:

```markdown
Read more in the [Configuration section](#configuration) of this page.
```

From a different page:

```markdown

> Read more in the [Grafana Open Source section of the Introduction page](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/fundamentals/#grafana-open-source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Read more in the [Grafana Open Source section of the Introduction page](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/fundamentals/#grafana-open-source)
```

```

To convert a heading to an anchor, make the following changes:

> 1. Convert to lower case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Convert the header to lower case.
```

1. Remove any period characters (`.`).
1. Replace any character that's not a lower cased letter, a number, or an underscore (`_`) with dashes (`-`).
1. Trim any preceding or proceeding dashes (`-`).
1. Prefix with a `#`.

> The heading "Link to page headings" becomes the anchor `#link-to-page-headings`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The heading _Link to page headings_ becomes the anchor `#link-to-page-headings`.
```

aliases:
  - /docs/writers-toolkit/write/links/
  - /docs/writers-toolkit/writing-guide/references/
  - /docs/writers-toolkit/write/references/
keywords:
  - Hugo
  - references
  - relref
  - ref
---

# Links

Choose your link type based on the applicable scenario:

- [Linking from source content that's used (or mounted) in multiple projects](#source-content-is-reused-in-multiple-projects)
- [Linking to grafana.com pages](#destination-page-is-on-grafanacom)
- [Linking to external pages](#destination-page-is-external)
- [Linking to page headings](#anchors)

Other link types exist in our documentation but their usage is discouraged:

- [Hugo `relref` shortcode](#hugo-relref-shortcode)

## Source content is reused in multiple projects

Use the `docs/reference` shortcode.

The source is reused as described in [Reuse directories of content with Hugo mounts](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/reuse-content/reuse-directories/).
For more information and examples, refer to [`docs/reference` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#docsreference).

## Destination page is on grafana.com

Use a fully qualified URL with version substitution.

> For example, `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA VERSION>/`

Author: I've tried to revise this section with examples for three different projects, two versioned (Mimir and Grafana), and one without a version (Grafana Cloud). Hopefully this examples offer more clarity than what was already present.

Version substitution is necessary for links to resolve to the correct version of documentation.
If you want to link to a specific version of documentation, you do not need to include the substitution syntax.

> ### About version substitution

Author: Good idea!

It's helpful to realize that the value of shared content over linking is to avoid the reader having to context switch.

> ### About version substitution

Author: Actually, after revising this section, I no longer think the shared page is useful.
The revised content has more specific guidance for linking.

Specify and anchor at the end of the reference `#` followed by the normalized heading.

Hugo normalizes headings to make anchors.
To convert a heading to an anchor, Hugo makes the following changes:

1. Convert to lower case.
1. Remove any period characters (`.`).
1. Replace any character that's not a lower cased letter, a number, or an underscore (`_`) with dashes (`-`).
1. Trim any preceding or proceeding dashes (`-`).

## Hugo `relref` shortcode

The `relref` shortcode provides build-time link checking to ensure that the destination file exists.

For example: `{{</* relref "./path/to/page" */>}}`.

Hugo link checking only applies to the content available during the build.
In most projects, the only content available during local builds and CI is the current project documentation,
so you should be aware that just because a link uses a `relref`, it doesn't automatically follow that the link can be checked.

Emitted Hugo errors look like this:

<!-- The output example is also used in review/run-a-local-webserver. -->

{{< docs/shared source="writers-toolkit" lookup="hugo-error-example-bad-link.md" version="" >}}

> For additional information about Hugo error output, refer to [Test documentation changes](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/review/run-a-local-webserver/).

Author: I agree, I'm gonna repurpose it as a section in the [Shortcodes](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/) page

---
title: Links
description: Understand how to link between pages.
weight: 600
aliases:
  - /docs/writers-toolkit/write/links/
  - /docs/writers-toolkit/write/references/
  - /docs/writers-toolkit/writing-guide/references/
keywords:
  - Hugo
  - link
  - linking
  - links
  - ref
  - references
  - relref
---

# Links

Choose your link type based on the applicable scenario:

- [Link from source content that's used in multiple projects](#link-from-source-content-thats-used-in-multiple-projects)
- [Link to grafana.com pages](#link-to-grafanacom-pages)
- [Link to external pages](#link-to-external-pages)
- [Link to page headings](#link-to-page-headings)

> Other link types exist in our documentation, but you shouldn't use them:

Author: I could contrive some alternatives but it's really just `relref` that is discouraged now.

> Other link types exist in our documentation, but you shouldn't use them:

Reviewer 2: Can we say something like, "Although other types of links still function, replace them with ... because it helps with future-oriented compatibility." (Could likely be revised; people generally respond better to positive phrasing.)

> Other link types exist in our documentation, but you shouldn't use them:

Author: `
```suggestion
Although these other types of links still function, replace them with full URLs:
```

- [Hugo `relref` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#relref)

## Link from source content that's used in multiple projects

Use the `docs/reference` shortcode.

The source is reused as described in [Reuse directories of content with Hugo mounts](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/reuse-content/reuse-directories/).
For more information and examples, refer to [`docs/reference` shortcode](https://grafana.com/docs/writers-toolkit/write/shortcodes/#docsreference).

## Link to grafana.com pages

> Use a fully qualified URL with version substitution syntax (if needed).

Author: I think "full" doesn't really mean anything and really neither does "fully qualified".

Instead, it's probably more correct and less confusing to just say:

```suggestion
Use a URL with version substitution syntax (if needed).
```

> Use a fully qualified URL with version substitution syntax (if needed).

Author: I should say that "fully qualified" has some meaning but it's not established in the context of URLs. Fully qualified domain names are understood and the usage of "fully qualified" here was intended to mean the same but in the context of URLs.

As per my previous comment, I don't think it's useful to be specific here when it's not an established term. URL is both technically correct and does not introduce any potentially confusing extra terminology.

> Use a fully qualified URL with version substitution syntax (if needed).

Reviewer: We've historically talked about partial URLs so I think there's value in talking about a full one.

Version substitution is necessary for fully qualified URLs to link to the correct version of documentation.
Usually, this is the current version of documentation.

In versioned documentation, ensure that you set the appropriate version in the root `_index.md` file for your documentation.
For example, the following YAML, merged with the existing front matter in the root `_index.md` file sets `GRAFANA_VERSION` to be `latest` for that page and all child pages.

```yaml
cascade:
  GRAFANA_VERSION: latest
```

### Examples

**Link to Grafana documentation**:

Start with `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/`, and add the rest of the URL path.

For example, to link to the [Developers](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/developers) page with version substitution,
use `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/developers/`.

- If you're linking from Grafana documentation, `<GRAFANA_VERSION>` is substituted with the version inferred from the page's URL.

> - If you're linking from other documentation, `<GRAFANA_VERSION>` is substituted with the value of `GRAFANA_VERSION` set in the page's front matter.

Author: Good idea, I've added that in [1a474fa](https://github.com/grafana/writers-toolkit/pull/345/commits/1a474faa269835811ef0faf24b64e519b291adcd)

**Link to Grafana Cloud documentation**:

Grafana Cloud documentation is not versioned so no version substitution syntax is needed.
Use the fully qualified URL.
For example, to link to the [Author and run tests](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/k6/author-run/) page, use `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana-cloud/k6/author-run/`.

**Link to Mimir documentation**:

Start with `https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<MIMIR_VERSION>/`, and add the rest of the URL path.

For example, to link to the [Release notes](https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/latest/release-notes/) page with version substitution,
use `https://grafana.com/docs/mimir/<MIMIR_VERSION>/release-notes/`.

- If you're linking from Mimir documentation, `<MIMIR_VERSION>` is substituted with the version inferred from the page's URL.
- If you're linking from other documentation, `<MIMIR_VERSION>` is substituted with the value of `MIMIR_VERSION` set in the page's front matter.

## Link to external pages

Use the fully qualified URL.
For example, `https://github.com`.

## Link to page headings

> You can optionally include an anchor to link to a specific heading in the destination page.

Reviewer: Wanna speak to two use cases here: linking within a page or linking from another page to a heading on a page. Thinking something like.
````suggestion
Link to a heading on a page in one of two ways.

From within the same page:

```markdown
Read more in the [Configuration section](#configuration) of this page.
```

From a different page:

```markdown
Read more in the [Grafana Open Source section of the Introduction page](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/<GRAFANA_VERSION>/fundamentals/#grafana-open-source
```
````
